I'm really impressed with Facebook. It's fun (totally addictive in fact), and
I think it's actually a better way to keep in touch with friends than email.

But what I'm really impressed with is how well they're handling a massive
growth in traffic. As of Feb 23 they've gone from zero to almost [18 million
users][10] in [just over three years][11], an increase of 240% since last July
alone.

   [10]: http://blog.facebook.com/blog.php?post=2245132130
   [11]: http://blog.facebook.com/blog.php?post=2243932130

From the [Facebook blog five weeks ago][12]:

   [12]: http://blog.facebook.com/blog.php?post=2248252130

> ...almost ten million different users sign into the site every day, or more
than half the user base. During our biggest peaks - Sunday & Monday night
around 10EST - more than one million people will be simultaneously logged into
the site.

Friendster is famous for missing a huge opportunity [in part because of poor
performance (40 second page load times)][13], and MySpace's well-known and
frequent reliability problems have continually [frustrated their
users][14].[][15]

   [13]: http://www.nytimes.com/2006/10/15/business/yourmoney/15friend.html?ei=5090&en=3e9438ed349f7ce7&ex=1318564800&partner=rssuserland&emc=rss&pagewanted=all
   [14]: http://www.petitiononline.com/myspace/petition.html
   [15]: http://www.alexa.com/data/details/traffic_details?site0=facebook.com&site1=myspace.com&site2=friendster.com&site3=&site4=&y=t&z=1&h=300&w=540&range=1m&size=Medium&url=masters.org

[According to Alexa][16] (as of today, April 11) Facebook's traffic is only
slightly higher than Friendster's (who have since [redesigned their
architecture][17]), and still far behind Myspace's. (Alexa's stats [may not be
that reliable][18] however.)

   [16]: http://www.alexa.com/data/details/traffic_details?site0=facebook.com&site1=myspace.com&site2=friendster.com&site3=&site4=&y=t&z=1&h=300&w=540&range=1m&size=Medium&url=masters.org
   [17]: http://www.infoworld.com/article/05/04/04/14FEfriendster_1.html
   [18]: http://paulgraham.infogami.com/blog/alexadanger

Regardless of the actual numbers, they're obviously doing the right things to
keep on top of the massive growth so far. Unfortunately though, I haven't been
able to find out many technical details except that they have [two terabytes
of RAM used by memcached][19].

   [19]: http://blog.facebook.com/blog.php?post=2245132130

UPDATE April 16: Apparently their traffic [increased by another 50%][20]
during the month of March! (Link via [Matthew Burpee][21] on Facebook).

   [20]: http://venturebeat.com/2007/03/30/look-at-facebook
   [21]: http://matthew.burpee.ca/

UPDATE December 18, 2008: Facebook's growth continues; they're now adding
[600,000 new users a day][22], and it's still fast and highly available. As a
[Facebook developer][23] I know they have the occasional glitch but knowing
what kind of growth they're going through I'm impressed with the level of
service they maintain!

   [22]: http://www.datacenterknowledge.com/archives/2008/12/17/facebook-adding-600000-users-a-day/
   [23]: http://www.facebook.com/apps/application.php?id=6060627117

